FantasySoccer - Team 2 - Assignment 2 (#4)
TorsteinTh/software-design-vu: docs/assignment2.md

# Assignment 2

### Implemented feature

| ID  | Short name  | Description  |
|---|---|---|
| F6  | League Formation | Allow the user to set up a league with its own schedule. The first round can have at most 16 matches. Matches will be played according to this schedule and the system will output the winner of each individual game. |

> This is the only feature we implemented; a league has (for now) a fixed-size of 16 teams in the first round. Players and teams are hard-coded into the system.

Reviewer: Great initiative to hard code other elements of the game !

### Used modeling tool
[StarUML](http://staruml.io/) 

## Class diagram									
Author(s): `Teona Moga`

![](imgs/classdi.jpg)

The system we designed for the Fantasy Soccer project consists of 3 packages: *models*, *views* and *controllers* and one Main class. Packages *views* and *controllers* deal with the GUI part of the project and are implemented using the javafx library, such that they will be described more briefly than *models*, which is where the entire back-end logic lies.   
### *Models* package  
  
This package implements 5 distinct classes: **Game**, **League**, **Team**, **Player** and **Match**, described below.  
  

> #### **Game**  

Reviewer: Great make sure to however keep this class focused on being an interface for the view classes. 
Example : When implementing leader boards make sure they are generated within League and then passed on through the API, subsequently your method generateLeaderboard() is misnamed, most methods here should be mere getters and setters!

  
- *void addTeam(Player[] players, String teamName)*: method for adding a team to the *allTeams* arraylist; parameters are the same as the ones required by the **Team** constructor.  
  
- *void createLeague(Queue<Team&gt; schedule)*: method for defining the league to be played; parameter is a list of teams ordered by their playing order, e.g.  a round with matches (Team1 vs. Team2) and (Team3 vs. Team4) would be represented as {Team1, Team2, Team3, Team4}.
- *HashMap<Integer, ArrayList<Team&gt;> getLeagueResults()*: returns the winners of *league* in the original format of the **League** class (described below)
- *ArrayList<Team&gt; generateLeaderboard()*: returns a sublist of first 10 teams in *allTeams*  sorted by their number of wins (**Team**.wins)
- *ArrayList<String&gt; getAllTeamNames()*: returns the team names of teams in *allTeams*
- *Team getTeamByName(String name)*: returns the team from *allTeams* with the given *name*
- *void removeTeam(String teamName)*: removes the team with the given *teamName* from *allTeams*
- *void removePlayer(String playerName)*: removes the player with the given *playerName* from *allPlayers*

Associations

> As can be observered from the class diagram, the **Game** class has composition relations with **Team**, **Player** and **League**, as it is resposible with creating and storing these other objects. While it can store an indefinite number of teams and players, a game can only have one league, as a user can not play multiple leagues at one time.  It also has associations with the GUI classes, which intercat with **Game** to either follow up on user actions, e.g. forming a new team, or get the data to be displayed to the user, e.g. the leaderboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As can be observed from the class diagram, the **Game** class has composition relations with **Team**, **Player** and **League**, as it is responsible with creating and storing these other objects. While it can store an indefinite number of teams and players, a game can only have one league, as a user can not play as multiple leagues at one time.  It also has associations with the GUI classes, which interact with **Game** class to either follow up on user actions, e.g. forming a new team, or get the data to be displayed to the user, e.g. the leaderboard.
```

Reviewer 2: Slight spelling and grammar mistakes.

> #### **Player**

Reviewer 2: The text looks polished, however it is harder to read in Github (when not looking at the Markdown version), I cannot immediately see the separation between classes and subparts. Maybe add a couple indentations or more empty lines in between different sections?  Maybe run the text through a spell checker, there are some grammar and spelling mistakes. Otherwise, good job on the text.
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/59608110/76948990-2b941000-6908-11ea-95f8-cdafc4cb17f6.png)

Class representing a single player. Only exists within a **Game** and is created from user input.

Attributes 

- *name* (type: String): player's name
- *score* (type: int): player's score

Operations

- *String getName()*: returns *name*
- *int getScore()* : returns *score*

Associations

> All **Player** objects are contained within **Game**. A team is an aggregation of exactly 8 **Player** objects. 

Reviewer: **[INCONSISTENCY]** In Assignment 1, F3 Team formation states that teams are formed of 11 players, I don't see the incentive behind this change ?

#### **Team**

Class representing a single soccer team. Only exists within a **Game** and is created through the GUI by the user through the selection of 8 **Player** objects.

Attributes 

- *players* (type: Player[]): all the players in a team. Represented by an array as a team has exactly 8 players.
- *score* (type: int): team's total score
- *wins* (type: int): team's total number of wins in leagues played by the user; initilized to 0
- *teamName* (type: String): team name, unique attribute used to identify a team

Operations 

- *int calculateScore()*: calculates the *score* of a team by adding up all the *players* objects individual scores
-  *int getTeamScore()*: returns *score*
-  *int getTotalWins()*: returns *wins*
- *String getTeamName()*: returns *teamName*
- *void addNewWin()*: increments *wins*

Associations

The composition relation between **Team** and **Game** suggests the fact that all **Team** objects ever created are part of the **Game**.allTeams. 

> Each team is an aggregation of exactly 8 **Player** objects.  

Reviewer: **[INCONSISTENCY]** This at the moment is not inline with the source code or the object diagram!

#### **League** 

A league simulates multiple rounds of matches between user-selected teams and determines the winners.

Attributes

- *initialTeams* (type:Queue<Team&gt;): List of the teams playing in the first round, as selected by the user.  Already described in **Game**.createLeague's parameter as: list of teams ordered by their playing order, e.g.  a round with matches (Team1 vs. Team2) and (Team3 vs. Team4) would be represented as {Team1, Team2, Team3, Team4}
-  *winners* (type: HashMap<Integer, ArrayList<Team&gt;>):  A key represents the round number, e.g. first round is 1, while the values represent the winners at each given round.

Operations

- *void playRound(Queue<Team&gt; teamsToPlay, int round)*: recursive method that generates *winners*. First call is *playRound(initialTeams, 1)*. The method calls itself for following rounds until one team remains (the league winner) 
- HashMap<Integer, ArrayList<Team>> getWinners(): calls *playRound* method and returns *winners*

Associations

> A single **League** object can exist at one time within a **Game**. A league can start with at most 16 teams as per requirement **FR6**. Within the *playRound* method, **Match** objects are created from the playing teams to generate a winner.

Reviewer: Since you mentioned in the feature description that the first round can have at most 16 matches, it only makes sense that the directed binary association between League and Match would have an end multiplicity of 0..16 and a start multiplicity of 1 since a match can belong to only one league at most, and  logically, a league can not spawn more than 16 match objects at one time

#### **Match**

A match simulates a single soccer game between two teams.

Attributes

* *team1* (Type: Team): first team in the match
* *team2* (Type: Team): second team in the match

Operations

- *Team getWinner()*: returns the winner of a match as described in **FR8** and **FR9**

Assiciations

A match is formed of exactly 2 **Team** objects.

### *Views* package

> Each class in this package is an extention of the **GamePane** abstract class, described below. Each uses the *javafx* library and represents a different window in the GUI. All interactions with the *models* package are made via the **Game** class methods.

Reviewer: **[SEVERE]** Extension is modeled using inheritance arrows (full head arrows), not directed binary association!

#### **GamePane**

Abstract methods

- *void connectComponents()*: Connects all components into the root of a *javafx.scene.Scene*
- *void styleComponents()*: Styles all components as required
- *void setCallbacks()*: Sets callbacks for all interactive components

### *Controllers* package

Only consists of class **SceneManager** used for managing the *javafx* Scenes.

Operations

- *void setStage(final Stage stage)*: Sets the primary stage
- *void showScene(final Scene scene)*: Replaces the currently active Scene with another one
- *void showPane(final Class<? extends GamePane> pane)*: Replaces the current  **GamePane** with another
- *SceneManager getInstance()*: returns the instance of the class

## Object diagrams								
Author(s): `Torstein Thomassen`

This object diagram shows an example of objects with different states in our program.
All the different attributes and variables has to be fulled in with example data.

> In this example each team has only three players. This is only for demonstration and will be changed for the final version.

Reviewer: Taken into account

This structure resembles a tree structure with branches and leafs. The tree structure is commonly used in many software design. It's an efficient and a good way to structure the relation between objects. 

This creates a hierarchy where a parent can only directly affect the children. E.g the **Match** can't affect the **Player** 'directly', only the **Team** objects.       

`Object diagram over the Match Class`

> ![](imgs/ass2%20obj%20diagram.png)

Reviewer: Would have been great if you had modeled the object diagram of a league and not just a single match, remember these diagrams should present your feature as a whole not just parts of it

The diagram above shows an example over the *Match* class. It has a relation with two *Team* object, and the *Team* object again has a relation with various *Player* object
As you can see *Team 1* would win the match because they have a higher score. You can also see it's the second round, because both teams have already one win.  

## State machine diagrams									
Author(s): `Torstein Thomassen` & `Teona Moga`

> In the way our system is designed, only the **Game** and **League** classes are not stateless. Their state diagrams are shown below.

Reviewer: **[SEVERE]** Player, Team are both stateful classes. 

Examples : 
- A player is either in a team or available
- A Team is either full or not full

`State diagram over League Class`

> ![](imgs/StatechartDiagram1.jpg)

Reviewer: **[SEVERE]** States should have meaningful names, A could be NotStarted and B could be Ongoing

> The state diagram above represents the different states a league can be in. When it is initialized, no rounds are played so the *winners* map is empty. **League** has one recursive method, called when the results of the created schedule, i.e. **initialTeams**, are requested. What breaks the recursion is having no more matches to play in a subsequent round, as there is only one team left (the winner of the league).

Reviewer: When constructed, the class initializes exactly two variables, not one

`State diagram over Game Class`
![](imgs/ass2%20state%20Diagram.png)

> Above is shown a state diagram for the **Game** class. You have different methods that effect the three main states the **Game** class consist of.

Reviewer: **[SEVERE]** The Decision node here in unsuitable, you needed  a parrallelization node along with 3 composite states for each pair of corresponding states.

As it stands, this diagram is the bare minimum!

**Title: League Execution**

![](imgs/Sequence2League.png)

**Elements**

This sequence diagrams shows the interactions between the player and the game to execute the league from a player provided schedule. This sequence happens when all teams have been made and the player starts the league simulation. 
The player represented by the actor element provides a schedule with all the matches that will play in the first round to the game. 

> From this schedule a new League object is created. The league then starts with the playRound function. Here all the scheduled matches are played one by one in the Loop fragment. A match object is created and returns the winner of the match before being destroyed. The winning teams are added to the pool of teams playing next round. 

Reviewer: **[GRANULARITY]** This sequence diagram abstracts important parts of the League initialization, the LeagueSimulatorPane callbacks indicate that when started the league gets the created via createLeagueSchedule() and then winners are displayed via displayWinners(), both triggered via the playButton event. Make sure to include important parts of the execution in the diagam
